(Subtitles by J Basto, in English) 
(lyrics from the web) 
(synchrinized for Les.Miserables.2012.DVDSCR-EDAW2013) 
Les Misérables (2012),  IMDb 8.1/10, nom 8 Oscars 
Music by Claude-Michel Schönberg,  english lyrics by Herbert Kretzmer.
Filmed in UK (mostly) and France 
Hugh Jackman (b.1968, AUS) as Jean Valjean, the ex-con then Mayor 
Russell Crowe (b.1964, NZ) as Javert, the inspector 
Anne Hathaway (b.1982, US) as Fantine, the factory worker 
Amanda Seyfried (b.1985, US) as Cosette, the daughter of Fantine In 19th-century France, Jean Valjean, has been hunted by the ruthless policeman Javert 
After he breaks parole, agrees to care for factory worker Fantine's daughter, Cosette.
The fateful decision changes their lives forever.
(Jean Valjean) 
(Javert) 
1."Look Down" (Chain Gang, Javert, Valjean) 
Look down, look down Don't look 'em in the eye 
Look down, look down, You're here until you die 
No God above and Hell alone below 
Look down, look down, There's 20 years to go I've done no wrong!
Sweet Jesus, hear my prayer!
Look down look down, Sweet Jesus doesn't care I know she'll wait, I know that she'll be true!
Look down, look down, They've all forgotten you 
When I get free ya won't see me.
Here for dust!
Look down, look down You'll always be a slave 
Look down, look down, You're standing in your grave 
Retreat the flag!
2."On Parole" – Valjean, Javert 
Now prisoner 24601 Your time is up, and your parole's begun 
You know what that means.
Yes, it means I'm free.
I stole a loaf of bread.
My sister's child was close to death and we were starving.
You will starve again unless you learn the meaning of the law.
I know the meaning of those 19 years 
A slave of the law 
5 years for what you did 
The rest because you tried to run Yes, 24601.
My name is Jean Valjean 
And I am Javert Do not forget my name!
Do not forget me, 24601!
Look down, look down, You'll always be a slave 
Look down, look down, You're standing in your grave 
Nor forgive them For what they've done.
They are the guilty - everyone.
The day begins...
And now let's see 
What this new world will do for me!
No work here 
Valjean, as a dangerous man, you will be in parole forever 
Failure to report means immediate arrest Be in 30 days 
Let me see your papers 
(Bishop of Digne) Come in, Sir, for you are weary, 
And the night is cold out there.
Though our lives are very humble 
What we have, we have to share.
There is wine here to revive you 
There is bread to make you strong, 
There's a bed to rest till morning, 
Rest from pain, and rest from wrong.
3."Valjean Arrested and Forgiven" (Policemen, Bishop of Digne) 
Get in there.
Put it down.
Stay there.
Monseigneut!
We have your silver.
We caught this man I didn't notice that you gave him this?
That is right.
But my friend you left so early 
Surely something slipped your mind 
You forgot I gave these also Would you leave the best behind?
Messieurs, you may release him For this man has spoken true I commend you for your duty And God's blessing go with you.
4."Valjean's Soliloquy" (Valjean) 
What have I done?
Sweet Jesus, what have I done?
Become a thief in the night, Become a dog on the run 
And have I fallen so far, And is the hour so late 
That nothing remains but the cry of my hate, 
The cries in the dark that nobody hears, 
Here where I stand at the turning of the years?
If there's another way to go I missed it 20 long years ago 
My life was a war that could never be won 
They gave me a number and murdered Valjean 
When they chained me and left me for dead 
Just for stealing a mouthful of bread 
Yet why did I allow this man 
To touch my soul and teach me love?
He treated me like any other He gave me his trust 
He called me brother My life he claims for God above 
Can such things be?
For I had come to hate the world 
This world that always hated me 
Take an eye for an eye!
Turn your heart into stone!
This is all I have lived for!
This is all I have known!
One word from him and I'd be back 
Beneath the lash, upon the rack Instead he offers me my freedom I feel my shame inside me like a knife 
He told me that I have a soul, 
How does he know?
What spirit comes to move my life?
Is there another way to go?
I am reaching, but I fall 
And the night is closing in 
And I stare into the void 
To the whirlpool of my sin I'll escape now from that world 
From the world of Jean Valjean 
Jean Valjean is nothing now 
Another story must begin!
5."At the End of the Day" (Factory Women, Fantine, Valjean) 
At the end of the day you're another day older 
And that's all you can say for the life of the poor It's a struggle, it's a war 
And there's nothing that anyone's giving 
One more day standing about, what is it for?
One day less to be living.
At the end of the day you're another day colder 
And the shirt on your back doesn't keep out the chill 
And the righteous hurry past 
They don't hear the little ones crying 
And the winter is coming on fast, ready to kill 
One day nearer to dying!
At the end of the day there's another day dawning 
And the sun in the morning is waiting to rise 
Like the waves crash on the sand Like a storm that'll break any second 
There's a hunger in the land 
There's a reckoning still to be reckoned and there's gonna be hell to pay 
At the end of the day!
At the end of the day you get nothing for nothing 
Sitting flat on your butt doesn't buy any bread 
There are children back at home And the children have got to be fed 
And you're lucky to be in a job And in a bed!
And we're counting our blessings!
Have you seen how the foreman is fuming today?
With his terrible breath and his wandering hands?
It's because little Fantine won't give him his way 
Take a look at his trousers, you'll see where he stands!
And the boss, he never knows That the foreman is always in heat If Fantine doesn't look out Watch how she goes 
She'll be out on the street!
At the end of the day it's another day over 
With enough in your pocket to last for a week 
Pay the landlord, pay the shop Keep on grafting as long as you're able 
Keep on grafting till you drop Or it's back to the crumbs off the table 
You've got to pay your way At the end of the day!
And what have we here, little innocent sister?
Come on Fantine, let's have all the news!
Ooh..."Dear Fantine you must send us more money... 
Your child needs a doctor...There's no time to lose..." 
Give that letter to me It is none of your business 
With a husband at home And a bit on the side!
Is there anyone here Who can swear before God 
She has nothing to fear?
She has nothing to hide?
What is this fighting all about?
Someone tear these two apart!
This is a factory, not a circus!
Now, come on ladies, settle down I am the Mayor of this town I run a business of repute 
Deal with this, foreman!
And be as patient as you can.
Now someone say how this began!
At the end of the day She's the one who began it!
There's a kid that she's hiding In some little town 
There's a man she has to pay You can guess how she picks up the extra 
You can bet she's earning her keep Sleeping around 
And the boss wouldn't like it!
Yes it's true there's a child And the child is my daughter 
And her father abandoned us leaving us flat 
Now she lives with an innkeeper man and his wife 
And I pay for the child What's the matter with that?
At the end of the day She'll be nothing but trouble 
And there's trouble for all When there's trouble for one!
While we're earning our daily bread She's the one with her hands in the butter 
You must send the slut away Or we're all gonna end in the gutter 
And it's us who'll have to pay At the end of the day!
I might have known the bitch could bite I might have known the cat had claws I might have guessed your little secret 
Ah yes, the virtuous Fantine 
Who keeps herself so pure and clean You'd be the cause I had no doubt 
Of any trouble hereabout You play a virgin in the light 
But need no urgin' in the night.
She's been laughing at you While she's having her men 
She'll be nothing but trouble again and again You must sack her today 
Sack the girl today!
Right my girl.
On your way!
6."The Runaway Cart" (Townspeople) 
Can this be true?
I don't belive what I see, 
A man your age to be as strong as you are... 
A memory stirs, you make me think of a man 
From years ago, a man who broke his parole, he disappeared... 
Say what you must, don't leave it there.
Forgive me sir, I would not dare 
7."Lovely Ladies" (Sailors, Fantine, Whores) I smell women Smell 'em in the air 
Think I'll drop my anchor In that harbor over there 
Lovely ladies Smell 'em through the smoke 
Seven months at sea And now I'm hungry for a poke 
Even stokers need a little stoke!
Lovely ladies Waiting for a bite 
Waiting for the customers Who only come at night 
Lovely ladies Ready for the call 
Standing up or lying down Or any way at all 
Bargain prices up against the wall 
What pretty hair!
What pretty locks you got there 
What luck you got.
It's worth a centime, my dear I'll take the lot 
Don't touch me!
Leave me alone!
Let's make a price.
I'll give you all of 10 francs, Just think of that!
It pays a debt 
Just think of that 
What can I do?
It pays a debt.
10 francs may save my poor Cosette!
Lovely ladies Waiting in the dark 
Ready for a thick one Or a quick one in the park 
Long time short time Any time, my dear 
Cost a little extra if you want to take all year!
Quick and cheap is underneath the pier!
Give me the dirt, who's that bit over there?
A bit of skirt.
She's the one sold her hair.
She's got a kid.
Sends her all that she can I might have known There is always some man 
Lovely lady, come along and join us!
Lovely lady!
Come on dearie, why all the fuss?
You're no grander than the rest of us 
Life has dropped you at the bottom of the heap 
Join your sisters Make money in your sleep!
That's right dearie, show him what you've got!
That's right dearie, let him have the lot 
Old men, young men, take 'em as they come 
Harbor rats and alley cats and every kind of scum 
Poor men, rich men, leaders of the land 
See them with their trousers off they're never quite as grand 
All it takes is money in your hand!
Lovely ladies Going for a song 
Got a lot of callers But they never stay for long 
Come on, Captain, you can wear your shoes 
Don't it make a change To have a girl who can't refuse 
Easy money Lying on a bed 
Just as well they never see The hate that's in your head 
Don't they know they're making love To one already dead!
8."I Dreamed a Dream" (Fantine) 
There was a time when men were kind, 
And their voices were soft, 
And their words inviting.
There was a time when love was blind, 
And the world was a song, 
And the song was exciting.
There was a time... when it all went wrong... I dreamed a dream in time gone by, 
When hope was high and life worth living.
I dreamed that love would never die, I dreamed that God would be forgiving.
Then I was young and unafraid, 
And dreams were made and used and wasted.
There was no ransom to be paid, 
No song unsung, no wine, untasted.
But the tigers come at night, 
With their voices soft as thunder, 
As they tear your hope apart, 
And they turn your dream to shame.
He slept a summer by my side, 
He filled my days with endless wonder... 
He took my childhood in his stride, 
But he was gone when autumn came!
And still I dream he'll come to me, 
That we will live the years together, 
But there are dreams that cannot be, 
And there are storms we cannot weather!
I had a dream my life would be 
So different from this hell I'm living, 
So different now from what it seemed... 
Now life has killed the dream I dreamed... 
9."Fantine's Arrest" (Fantine, Javert, Valjean) 
You've got some nerve, you little slut You've got some gall.
I guarantee, I'll make you suffer I beg you, don't report me sir I'll do whatever you may want 
Tell me quickly what's the story 
Who saw what and why and where 
Let him give a full description Let him answer to Javert!
Javert, would you believe it I was lost here in the dark 
When this prostitute attacked me You can see she left her mark 
She will answer for her actions If you make a full report 
You may rest assured, M'sieur, she will answer to the court.
There's a child who sorely needs me Please M'sieur, she's but that high 
Holy God, is there no mercy?
If I go to jail she'll die!
I have heard such protestations Every day for 20 years 
Let's have no more explanations Save your breath and save your tears 
`Honest work, just reward, That's the way to please the Lord.' 
A moment of your time, Javert I do believe this woman's tale 
M'sieur le Mayor 
You've done your duty, let her be She needs a doctor, not a jail 
But M'sieur Mayor!
Can this be?
Where will she end?
This child without a friend?
I've seen your face before 
Show me some way to help you 
How have you come to grief In a place such as this?
M'sieur, don't mock me now, I pray It's hard enough I've lost my pride 
You let your foreman send me away 
Yes, you were there, and turned aside I never did no wrong Is it true, what I have done?
My daughter's close to dying...
To an innocent soul?
If there's a God above Had I only known then... 
He'd let me die instead In His name my task has just begun I will take her to the hospital.
10."Who Am I?
/ The Trial" (Valjean) 
He thinks that man is me without a second glance!
The stranger they have found This man could be my chance!
Why should I save his hide?
Why should I right this wrong?
When I have come so far And struggled for so long?
If I speak, I am condemned.
If I stay silent, I am damned!
I am the master of hundreds of workers.
They all look to me.
How can I abandon them?
How would they live if I am not free?
If I speak, they are condemned.
If I stay silent, I am damned!
Who am I?
Can I condemn this man to slavery 
Pretend I do not feel his agony 
This innocent who bears my face Who goes to judgement in my place 
Who am I?
Can I conceal myself for evermore?
Pretend I'm not the man I was before?
And must my name until I die Be no more than an alibi?
Must I lie?
How can I ever face my fellow men?
How can I ever face myself again?
My soul belongs to God, I know I made that bargain long ago 
He gave me hope when hope was gone 
He gave me strength to journey on 
Who am I?
Who am I?
Jean Valjean!
And so Your Honor, you see it's true This man bears no more guilt than you!
Who am I?
24601!
11."Come to Me (Fantine's Death)" (Fantine, Valjean) 
Cosette, it's turned so cold 
Cosette, it's past your bedtime 
You've played the day away 
And soon it will be night.
Come to me, Cosette, the light is fading 
Don't you see the evening star appearing?
Come to me, and rest against my shoulder 
How fast the minutes fly away and every minute colder.
Dear Fantine, Cosette will be here soon 
Dear Fantine, she will be by your side 
Come Cosette, my child.
Where did you go?
Be at peace... 
Be at peace evermore... 
My Cosette... 
Shall live in my protection 
Take her now 
Your child will want for nothing 
Good M'sieur, you come from God in Heaven.
Tell her I love her.
And I'll see her when I wake... 
12."The Confrontation" (Javert, Valjean) 
Valjean, at last, 
We see each other plain 
`M'sieur le Mayor,' 
You'll wear a different chain!
Before you say another word, Javert 
Before you chain me up like a slave again 
Listen to me!
There is something I must do.
This woman leaves behind a suffering child.
There is none but me who can intercede, In Mercy's name, 3 days are all I need.
Then I'll return, I pledge my word.
Then I'll return...
You must think me mad!
I've hunted you across the years 
A man like you can never change 
A man such as you.
Believe of me what you will 
There is a duty that I'm sworn to do 
You know nothing of my life 
All I did was steal some bread 
You know nothing of the world 
You would sooner see me dead 
But not before I see this justice done I am warning you Javert I'm a stronger man by far 
There is power in me yet 
My race is not yet run 
You know nothing of Javert I was born inside a jail I was born with scum like you I am from the gutter too!
13."Castle on a Cloud" (Young Cosette) 
There is a castle on a cloud, I like to go there in my sleep, 
Aren't any floors for me to sweep, 
Not in my castle on a cloud.
There is a lady all in white, 
Holds me and sings a lullaby, 
She's nice to see and she's soft to touch, 
She says "Cosette, I love you very much." I know a place where no one's lost, I know a place where no one cries, 
Crying at all is not allowed, 
Not in my castle on a cloud.
Now look who's here The little madam herself!
Pretending once again she's been `so awfully good,' 
Better not let me catch you slacking Better not catch my eye!
10 rotten francs your mother sends me What is that going to buy?
Now take that pail My little `Mademoiselle' 
And go and draw some water from the well!
We should never have taken you in in the first place 
How stupid the things that we do!
Like mother like daughter, the scum of the street.
Mamma!
Eponine, come my dear, Eponine, let me see you 
You look very well in that new little blue hat 
There's some little girls who know how to behave 
And they know what to wear 
And I'm saying thank heaven for that.
Still there Cosette?
Your tears will do you no good!
I told you fetch some water from the well in the wood!
Please do not send me out alone 
Not in the darkness on my own!
14."Master of the House" (Thénardier and Mme., Inn Patrons) 
My band of soaks 
My den of dissolutes 
My dirty jokes, my always pissed as newts.
My sons of whores 
Spent their lives in my inn 
Homing pigeons homing in 
They fly through my doors 
And their money's as good as yours 
Welcome, M'sieur Sit yourself down 
And meet the best Innkeeper in town 
As for the rest, All of 'em crooks 
Rooking their guests And cooking the books.
Seldom do you see Honest men like me 
A gent of good intent Who's content to be 
Master of the house Doling out the charm 
Ready with a handshake And an open palm 
Tells a saucy tale Makes a little stir 
Customers appreciate a bon-viveur 
Glad to do a friend a favor Doesn't cost me to be nice 
But nothing gets you nothing Everything has got a little price!
Master of the house Keeper of the zoo 
Ready to relieve 'em Of a sou or two 
Watering the wine Making up the weight 
Pickin' up their knick-knacks When they can't see straight 
Everybody loves a landlord Everybody's bosom friend I do whatever pleases Jesus!
Won't I bleed 'em in the end!
Master of the house Quick to catch yer eye 
Never wants a passerby To pass him by 
Servant to the poor Butler to the great 
Comforter, philosopher, And lifelong mate!
Everybody's boon companion Everybody's chaperone 
But lock up your valises Jesus!
Won't I skin you to the bone!
Food beyond compare Food beyond belief 
Mix it in a mincer And pretend it's beef 
Kidney of a horse Liver of a cat 
Filling up the sausages With this and that 
Residents are more than welcome Bridal suite is occupied 
Reasonable charges Plus some little extras on the side!
Charge 'em for the lice Extra for the mice 
2% for looking in the mirror twice 
Here a little slice There a little cut 
3% for sleeping with the window shut 
When it comes to fixing prices 
There are a lot of tricks he knows How it all increases 
All those bits and pieces Jesus!
It's amazing how it grows!
I used to dream That I would meet a prince 
But God Almighty, Have you seen what's happened since?
`Master of the house?' Isn't worth me spit!
`Comforter, philosopher' - and lifelong shit!
Cunning little brain Regular Voltaire 
Thinks he's quite a lover But there's not much there 
What a cruel trick of nature Landed me with such a louse 
God knows how I've lasted Living with this bastard in the house!
Master of the house.
Master and a half!
Comforter, philosopher Ah, don't make me laugh!
Servant to the poor.
Butler to the great.
Hypocrite and toady and inebriate!
Everybody bless the landlord!
Everybody bless his spouse!
Everybody raise a glass 
Everybody raise a glass to the master of the house!
Hush now.
Do not be afraid of me.
Don't hide.
Show me where you live 
Tell me my chid.
What is your name?
I'm called Cosette 
Can I help you with your bucket?
I've found her wandering in the wood.
This little child, I've found her trembling in the shadows.
And I am here to help Cosette I will settle any debt you may think proper I will pay what I must pay to take Cosette away 
This is a duty I must 
There is a promess I have made 
- 
- 
And your mother is with God 
Certainly is rebirthed 
And I speek here with her voice 
And I stand here in her place 
And from ths day and evermore 
Cosette shall live in my protection 
You are very wellcome here.
I will not forget our vow 
Take a drink.
Take a chair.
Cosette shall have a father now 
16."The Bargain" (Thénardier and Mme., Valjean, Young Cosette) 
What to do?
What to say?
Shall you carry our treasure away?
What a gem!
What a pearl!
Beyond rubies is our little girl!
How can we talk of debt?
Let's not haggle for darling Colette!
Cosette!
Dear Fantine, gone to rest... 
Have we done for her child what is best?
I think so.
Shared our bread.
Shared each bone.
Treated her like she's one of our own!
Like our own, Monsieur!
Your feelings do you credit, sir And I will ease the parting blow 
Let us not talk of bargains or bones or greed 
Now, may I say, we are agreed?
That would quite fit the bill If she hadn't so often been ill 
Little dear, cost us dear Medicines are expensive, M'sieur 
Not that we begrudged a sou It's no more than we Christians must do!
No more words.
Here's your price.
Fifteen hundred for your sacrifice.
Come, Cosette, say goodbye 
Let us seek out some friendlier sky.
Thank you both for Cosette It won't take you too long to forget.
Farewell Cojette!
Cosette.
17."Suddenly" (Valjean, new song) 
Suddenly I'm here Suddenly it starts 
When two anxious hearts beat as one.
Yesterday I was alone Today you walk beside me 
Something still unclear Something not yet here 
Has begun.
Suddenly the world Seems a different place 
Somehow full of grace And delight.
How was I to know That so much love 
Was held inside me?
But her past is gone Now we are long through the night.
How was I to know at last That happiness can come so fast?
Trusting me the way you do I’m so afraid of failing you 
Just a child who cannot know That danger follows where I go 
There are shadows everywhere And memories I cannot share 
Nevermore alone Nevermore apart 
You have warmed my heart Like the sun.
You have brought the gift of life And love so long denied me.
Suddenly I see What I could not see 
Something suddenly Has begun 
18."Stars" (Javert) 
There, out in the darkness A fugitive running 
Fallen from God Fallen from grace 
God be my witness I never shall yield 
Till we come face to face 
He knows his way in the dark Mine is the way of the Lord 
And those who follow the path of the righteous Shall have their reward 
And if they fall, as Lucifer fell The flame, the sword!
Stars In your multitudes 
Scarce to be counted Filling the darkness 
With order and light You are the sentinels 
Silent and sure 
Keeping watch in the night 
You know your place in the sky 
You hold your course and your aim 
And each in your season Returns and returns 
And is always the same 
And if you fall as Lucifer fell 
You fall in flame!
And so it has been and so it is written 
On the doorway to paradise 
That those who falter and those who fall 
Must pay the price!
Lord let me find him That I may see him 
Safe behind bars I will never rest 
Till then This I swear 
This I swear by the stars!
19."Look Down" (People) 
Look down and see the beggars at your feet 
Look down and show some mercy if you can 
Look down and see the sweepings of the street 
Look down, look down, Upon your fellow man!
'Ow do you do?
My name's Gavroche.
These are my people.
Here's my patch.
Not much to look at, nothing posh Nothing that you'd call up to scratch.
This is my school, my high society Here in the slums of Saint Michele 
We live on crumbs of humble piety Tough on the teeth, but what the hell!
Think you're poor?
Think you're free?
Follow me!
Follow me!
Look down and show some mercy if you can 
Look down, look down, upon your fellow man!
There was a time we killed the king.
We've tried to change the world too fast 
Now we have got another king He's no better than the last 
This is the land of full liberty Now when we fight, we fight for great.
Here is the thing about equality Even if we could when we're dead 
Take your place.
Take your chance Vive la France.
Vive la France!
Look down and show some mercy if you can 
Look down, look down, upon your fellow man!
When's it gonna end?
When we gonna live?
Something's gotta happen now or Something's gonna give It'll come, it'll come, it'll come 
Where are the leaders of the land?
Where is the king who runs this show?
Only one man - general Lamarque Speaks for the people here below.
Lamarque is ill and fading fast!
Won't last the week out, so they say.
With all the anger in the land How long before the judgement day?
Before we cut the fat ones down to size?
Before the barricades arise?
Marius.
Grandfather.
Have you any idea of the shame you bring on our family?
Vive la France!
20."The Robbery" (Thénardier,  Marius, Éponine, Valjean) 
Everyone here, you know your place Brujon, Babet, Claquesous 
You, Montparnasse, watch for the law With Eponine take care 
You turn on the tears No mistakes, my dears 
Please m'sieur, come this way Here's a child that ain't eaten today.
Save a life, spare a sou God rewards all the good that you do.
Wait a bit.
Know that face.
Ain't the world a remarkable place?
Men like me don't forget You're the bastard that borrowed Colette!
Cosette!
What is this?
Are you mad?
No, Monsieur, you don't know what you say!
You know me, you know me.
I'm a con, just like you.
It's the police!
Disappear!
Run for it!
It's Javert!
21."Javert's Intervention" (Javert, Thénardier) 
Another brawl in this square Another stink in the air!
Was there a witness to this?
Well, let him speak to Javert!
M'sieur, the streets are not safe, But let these vermin beware 
We'll see that justice is done!
Look upon this fine collection Crawled from underneath a stone 
This swarm of worms and maggots Could have picked you to the bone!
I know this man over here I know his name and his trade 
And on your witness, M'sieur, We'll see him suitably paid.
But where's the gentleman gone?
And why on earth did he run?
You will have a job to find him He's not whom he seems to be 
And the girl who stood beside him is the child he stole from me.
Yeah, and me.
Could it be he's some old jailbird That the tide now washes in 
Heard my name and started running All the elements point to him In the absence of a victim, Dear Inspector, may I go?
And remember when you've nicked him, It was me who told you so!
Let the old man keep on running I will run him off his feet!
Everyone about your business!
Clear this garbage off the street!
22."Éponine's Errand" (Éponine, Marius) 
Cosette!
Now I remember!
Cosette!
How can it be?
We were children together Look what's become of me... 
Eponine, who was that girl?
Some bourgeois two-a-penny thing!
Eponine, find her for me!
What will you give me?
Anything!
Got you all excited now, But God knows what you see in her 
Ain't you all delighted now?
No, I don't want your money sir... 
Eponine!
Do this for me...
Discover where she lives 
But careful how you go Don't let your father know 
'Ponine!
I'm lost until she's found!
You see, I told you so!
There's lots of things I know 
'Ponine...
she knows her way around!
23."Red & Black" (The ABC Cafe, the students) 
The time is near 
So near it's stirring the blood in their veins!
And yet beware 
Don't let the wine go to your brains!
We need a sign To rally the people 
To call them to arms To bring them in line!
Marius, wake up!
What's wrong today?
You look as if you've seen a ghost.
Some wine and say what's going on!
A ghost you say...
a ghost maybe She was just like a ghost to me 
One minute there, and she was gone!
I am agog!
I am aghast!
Is Marius in love at last?
I've never heard him `ooh' and `aah' 
You talk of battles to be won 
And here he comes like Don Ju-an It's better than an o-per-a!It is time for us all To decide who we are 
Do we fight for the right To a night at the opera now?
Have you asked of yourselves What's the price you might pay?
Is it simply a game For rich young boys to play?
The colors of the world are changing day by day... 
Red - the blood of angry men!
Black - the dark of ages past!
Red - a world about to dawn!
Black - the night that ends at last!
Had you seen here today You might know how it feels 
To be struck to the bone In a moment of breathless delight!
Had you been there today You might also have known 
How the world may be changed In just one burst of light!
And what was right seems wrong And what was wrong seems right!
Red..
I feel my soul on fire!
Black.
My world if she's not there!
Red..
The color of desire!
Black...
The color of despair!
Marius, you're no longer a child I do not doubt you mean it well 
But now there is a higher call.
Who cares about your lonely soul?
We strive toward a larger goal Our little lives don't count at all!
Red - the blood of angry men!
Black - the dark of ages past!
Red - a world about to dawn!
Black - the night that ends at last!
Listen everybody!
Tell them that Lamarque is dead.
Lamarque is dead.
It's the hour of fate.
The people's man.
His death is the sign we await!
On his funeral day they will honor his name.
And the light of rebellion will be placed in their eyes.
In the death of Lamarque we will kindle our flame In the 2 of the March shall oir barricades rise!
The time is here!
Let us welcome it gladly with courage and cheer 
Let us take to the streets with no doubt in our hearts 
But a jubilant shout 
They will come one and all 
They will come when we call!
24."Rue Plumet / In My Life" (Cosette, Valjean, Marius, Éponine) 
How strange This feeling that my life's begun at last 
This change, Can people really fall in love so fast?
What's the matter with you, Cosette?
Have you been too much on your own?
So many things unclear So many things unknown.
In my life 
There are so many questions and answers That somehow seem wrong In my life 
There are times when I catch in the silence The sigh of a faraway song 
And it sings 
Of a world that I long to see Out of reach 
Just a whisper away Waiting for me.
Does he know I'm alive?
Do I know if he's real?
Does he see what I see?
Does he feel what I feel?
In my life I'm no longer alone Now the love in my life is so near 
Find me now, find me here!
Dear Cosette, You're such a lonely child 
How pensive, how sad you seem to me 
Believe me, were it within my power I'd fill each passing hour 
How quiet it must be, I can see 
With only me for company.
There's so little I know That I'm longing to know 
Of the man that you were In a time long ago... 
There's so little you say Of the life you have known 
Why you keep to yourself Why we're always alone 
So dark!
So dark and deep...
The secrets that you keep!
In my life 
Please forgive what I say You are loving and gentle and good 
But Papa, dear Papa, In your eyes I am still like a child Who is lost in a wood 
No more words No more words.
It's a time that is dead 
There are words, that are better unheard, better unsaid.
In my life I'm no longer a child and I yearn For the truth that you know 
Of the years...
years ago!
You will learn 
Truth is given by God To us all in our time, in our turn In my life 
She has burst like the music of angels The light of the sun 
And my life seems to stop 
As if something is over And something has scarcely begun.
Eponine You're the friend who has brought me here 
Thanks to you I am one with the gods And Heaven is near!
And I soar through a world that is new that is free 
Every word that he says is a dagger in me!
In my life There's been no one like him anywhere 
Anywhere, where he is... If he asked...I'd be his In my life There is someone who touches my life 
Waiting near 
Waiting here 
A heart full of love 
A heart full of song I'm doing everything all wrong 
Oh God, for shame I do not even know your name 
Dear Mad'moiselle Won't you say?
Will you tell?
A heart full of love No fear, no regret 
My name is Marius Pontmercy And mine's Cosette 
Cosette, I don't know what to say Then make no sound I am lost I am found!
A heart full of light A night bright as day 
A single look and then I knew I knew it too 
These are words he'll never say Not to me... 
His heart full of love He will never feel this way... 
25."Plumet Attack" 
Who is this hussy?
It's your brat Eponine Don't you know your own kid 
Why's she hanging about you?
Eponine, get on home You're not needed in this 
We're enough here without you I know this house I tell you there's nothing here for you 
Just the old man and the girl They live ordinary lives 
Don't interfere You've got some gall 
Take care, young miss, You've got a lot to say!
I'm gonna scream, I'm gonna warn them here.
One little scream and you'll regret it for a year.
My God, Cosette!
You wait my girl, you'll rue this night I'll make you scream, you'll scream all right 
Must be Javert!
He's found my cover at last!
I've got to get Cosette away 
Then I'll arrange our passages to England 
Hurry, Cosette, prepare to leave and say no more, Tonight we'll away!
Hurry, Cosette, it's time to close another door And live another day!
Get dressed, we're leaving!
26."On My Own" (Éponine) 
On My Own, Pretending he's beside me.
All alone, I walk with him till morning.
Without him, I feel his arms around me, 
And when I lose my way I close my eyes 
And he has found me.
In the rain, The pavement shines like silver.
All the lights Are misty in the river.
In the darkness, The trees are full of starlight, 
And all I see is him and me for ever and forever.
And I know It's only in my mind, 
That I'm talking to myself And not to him.
And although I know that he is blind, 
Still I say, There's a way for us.
I love him, But when the night is over, 
He is gone, The river's just a river.
Without him, The world around me changes.
The trees are bare and everywhere The streets are full of strangers.
I love him, But every day I'm learning, 
All my life, I've only been pretending!
Without me, His world will go on turning, 
The world is full of happiness that I have never known!
I love him... 
But only on my own... 
27."One Day More" (The Cast) 
One day more!
Another day, another destiny.
This never-ending road to Calvary; 
These men who seem to know my crime Will surely come a second time.
One day more!
I did not live until today.
How can I live when we are parted?
One day more.
Tomorrow you'll be worlds away 
And yet with you, my world has started!
One more day all on my own.
Will we ever meet again?
One more day with him not caring.
I was born to be with you.
What a life I might have known.
And I swear I will be true!
But he never saw me there!
One more day before the storm!
Do I follow where she goes?
At the barricades of freedom.
Shall I join my brothers there?
When our ranks begin to form Do I stay; and do I dare?
Will you take your place with me?
The time is now, the day is here 
One day more!
One day more to revolution, We will nip it in the bud!
We'll be ready for these schoolboys, They will wet themselves with blood!
Watch 'em run amuck, Catch 'em as they fall, 
Never know your luck When there's a free for all, 
Here a little `dip' There a little `touch' 
Most of them are goners So they won't miss much!
One day to a new beginning Raise the flag of freedom high!
Every man will be a king 
There's a new world for the winning There's a new world to be won 
Do you hear the people sing?
My place is here, I fight with you!
One day more!
I will join these people's heros 
We will follow where they go We will learn their little secrets, 
We will know the things they know.
One day more!
One day more to revolution, We will nip it in the bud!
We'll be ready for these schoolboys, Tomorrow is the judgement day 
Tomorrow we'll discover What our God in Heaven has in store!
One more dawn One more day 
One day more!
28."Do You Hear the People Sing?" (Students, Beggars) 
Do you hear the people sing?
Singing a song of angry men?
It is the music of a people Who will not be slaves again!
When the beating of your heart Echoes the beating of the drums 
There is a life about to start When tomorrow comes!
Will you join in our crusade?
Who will be strong and stand with me?
Beyond the barricade Is there a world you long to see?
Then join in the fight That will give you the right to be free!
Do you hear the people sing?
Singing a song of angry men?
It is the music of a people Who will not be slaves again!
When the beating of your heart Echoes the beating of the drums 
There is a life about to start When tomorrow comes!
Will you give all you can give So that our banner may advance 
Some will fall and some will live Will you stand up and take your chance?
The blood of the martyrs Will water the meadows of France!
Do you hear the people sing?
Singing a song of angry men?
It is the music of a people Who will not be slaves again!
When the beating of your heart Echoes the beating of the drums 
There is a life about to start When tomorrow comes!
Red - the blood of angry men!
Black - the dark of ages past!
Red - a world about to dawn!
Black - the night that ends at last!
29."Javert's Arrival" (Javert, Enjolras) 
Listen my friends I have done as I said I have been to their lines I have counted each man.I will tell what I can.
Better beware they have armies to spare and the danger is real 
We will need all our cunning.
to bring them to yield 
Have faith.
If you know what their movements are we'll spoil their game 
There are ways that our people can fight we shall over come their power!
I have overheard their plans there will be no attack tonight they intend to starve us out before they start a proper fight concentrate their force hits us when is light.
Liar!
Good evening, dear inspector Lovely evening, my dear.
I know this man, my friends His name is Inspector Javert 
So don't believe a word he says 'Cause nothing it's true It only goes to show what little people can do!Inspector Javert.
Shoot me now or shoot me later 
Every schoolboy to his fault Death to each and every traitor I renounce your people's cause.
We keep looking forward 
French revolution!
30."A Little Fall of Rain" (Éponine, Marius) 
Don't you fret, M'sieur Marius I don't feel any pain 
A little fall of rain 
Can hardly hurt me now 
You're here, that's all I need to know 
And you will keep me safe 
And you will keep me close 
And rain will make the flowers grow.
But you will live, 'Ponine - dear God above, If I could close your wounds with words of love.
Just hold me now, and let it be.
Shelter me, comfort me 
Don't you fret, M'sieur Marius I don't feel any pain 
A little fall of rain 
Can hardly hurt me now 
All I need to know 
And you will keep me safe 
And you will keep me close 
And rain will make the flowers...
grow.
You see that prisoner over there?
A volunteer like you!
A spy who calls himself Javert!
He's going to get it too... 
Get in there!
Get inside!
Don't kill him!
I know him!
Thank you M'sieur 
Give me no thanks M'sieur There is something you can do.
If it is in my power.
Give me the spy Javert Let me take care of him!
Do what you have to do, The man belongs to you.
We meet again.
You've hungered for this all your life; Take your revenge!
How right you should kill with a knife!
Get out of here.
Valjean, take care!
Clear out of here.
Once a thief, forever a thief What you want you always steal!
You would trade your life for mine.
Yes, Valjean, you want a deal!
Shoot me now for all I care!
If you let me go, beware, You'll still answer to Javert!
You are wrong, and always have been wrong.
I'm a man, no worse than any man.
You are free, there are no conditions, No bargains or petitions.
There's nothing that I blame you for 
You've done your duty, nothing more.
If I come out of this alive, you'll find me at the Rue de la Monaie at number 5 
No doubt our paths will cross again.
Courfeyrac, you take the watch They may attack before it's light 
Everybody keep the faith For certain we'll have to fight 
As we are not alone For people who must rest 
31."Drink With Me" (Marius, Students) 
Drink with me to days gone by 
To the life that used to be 
At the shrine of friendship, never say die 
Let the wine of friendship never run dry 
Here's to you and here's to me 
Do I care if I should die Now she goes across the sea?
Life without Cosette Means nothing at all.
Would you weep, Cosette, if I would fall?
Would you weep, Cosette, For me?
32."Bring Him Home" (Valjean) 
God on high Hear my prayer In my need You have always been there 
He is young He's afraid 
Let him rest Heaven blessed.
Bring him home 
He's like the son I might have known If God had granted me a son.
The summers die One by one 
How soon they fly On and on 
And I am old And will be gone.
Bring him peace Bring him joy 
He is young He is only a boy 
You can take You can give 
Let him be Let him live If I die, let me die Let him live 
Bring him home 
32."The Second Attack" (Death of Gavroche) 
Do you hear the people sing Singing the song of angry men?
It is the music of a people Who will not be slaves again.
When the beating of your heart Echoes the beating of the drums 
There is a life about to start When tomorrow comes!
Little people know, when little people fight, 
We may look easy pickings But we've got some bite!
So never kick a dog Because he's just a pup 
We'll fight like 20 armies And we won't give up 
So you'd better run for cover When the pup grows...... 
33."The Final Battle" (Army officer, Students) 
You at the barricade listen to this 
The people of Paris sleep in their beds 
You have no chance No chance at all 
Why throw your lives away?
Let us die facing our foes Make them bleed while we can 
Make 'em pay through the nose Make 'em pay for every man!
Let others rise to take our place Until the earth is free!
You're alive!
I've saved you.
It's you, Javert!
I knew you wouldn't wait too long 
The faithful servant at his post once more!
This man's done no wrong, And he needs a doctor's care.
I warned you I would not give in I won't be swayed 
Another hour yet And then I'm yours 
And all our debts are paid.
The man of mercy comes again And talks of justice 
Come, time is running short Look down, Javert 
He's standing in his grave 
34."Javert's Suicide" (Javert) 
Who is this man?
What sort of devil is he?
To have me caught in a trap And choose to let me go free?
It was his hour at last To put a seal on my fate, 
Wipe out the past, And wash me clean off the slate.
All it would take was a flick of his knife.
Vengeance was his and he gave me back my life!
Damned if I'll live in the debt of a thief 
Damned if I'll yield at the end of the chase I am the Law and the Law is not mocked I'll spit his pity right back in his face 
There is nothing on earth that we share It is either Valjean or Javert!
And my thoughts fly apart.
Can this man be believed?
Shall his sins be forgiven?
Shall his crimes be reprieved?
And must I now begin to doubt, Who never doubted all those years?
My heart is stone and still it trembles.
The world I have known is lost in shadow.
Is he from heaven or from hell?
And does he know That, granting me my life today, 
This man has killed me even so?
I am reaching but I fall And the stars are black and cold 
As I stare into the void Of a world that cannot hold I'll escape now from that world From the world of Jean Valjean.
There is nowhere I can turn There is now way to go on... 
Did you see them Going off to fight?
Children of the barricade Who didn't last the night?
Did you see them Lying where they died?
Someone used to cradle them And kiss them when they cried.
Did you see them lying side by side?
35."Empty Chairs at Empty Tables" (Marius) 
There's a grief that can't be spoken.
There's a pain goes on and on.
Empty chairs at empty tables 
Now my friends are dead and gone.
Here they talked of revolution 
Here it was they lit the flame.
Here they sang about `tomorrow' 
And tomorrow never came.
From the table in the corner 
They could see a world reborn 
And they rose with voices ringing I can hear them now!
The very words that they had sung 
Became their last communion 
On the lonely barricade at dawn.
Oh my friends, my friends forgive me 
That I live and you are gone.
There's a grief that can't be spoken.
There's a pain goes on and on.
Phantom faces at the window.
Phantom shadows on the floor.
Empty chairs at empty tables Where my friends will meet no more.
Oh my friends, my friends, don't ask me 
What your sacrifice was for 
Empty chairs at empty tables Where my friends will sing no more.
36."Every Day / Heart Full of Love" (Marius, Cosette) 
Every day you walk with stronger step 
You walk with longer step- `The worst is over.' 
Don't think about it, Marius!
With all the years ahead of us!
I will never go away And we will be together 
Every day.
Every day, we'll remember that night And the vow that we made: 
A heart full of love A night full of you 
The words are old But always true.
Cosette, Cosette!
Waiting for you 
At your feet 
And it wasn't a dream Not a dream after all 
M'sieur, this is a day I never can forget.
Is gratitude enough For giving me Cosette?
Your home shall be with us And not a day shall pass 
But we will prove our love To you, whom we shall call 
A father to us both A father to us all.
Not another word my son, 
There's something now that must be done.
37."Valjean's Confession" (Valjean, Marius) 
There lived a man whose hame was Jean Valjean 
He stole some bread to save his sister's son.
For 19 winters served his time In sweat he washed away his crime.
Years ago He broke parole and lived a life apart 
How could he tell Cosette and break her heart?
It's for Cosette this must be faced If he is caught she is disgraced 
The time has come to journey on And from this day he must be gone 
Who am I?
You're Jean Valjean!
Monsieur, you cannot leave.
Whatever I tell my beloved Cosette She will never believe!
Tell her I have gone on a journey A long way away.
Tell her my heart was too full for farewells It is better this way.
Promise me, M'sieur, Cosette will never know...
what I have spoken, why I must go.
For the sake of Cosette, it must be so.
38."Wedding Chorale" (Chorus) 
Ring out the bells Upon this day of days!
May all the angels Of the Lord above In jubilation Sing their songs of praise!
And crown this blessed time with Peace and love.
The Baron and Baroness de Thénard 
Go away, Thénardier!
Do you think I don't know who you are?
He's not fooled.
Told you so.
Show M'sieur what you've come here to show.
Tell the boy what you know!
Pity to disturb you at a feast like this But 500 francs surely wouldn't come amiss.
In God's name say what you have to say.
He speaks you pay!
What I saw, clear as light, Jean Valjean in the sewers one night.
Had this corpse on his back Some boy he had killed in a vicious attack.
I was there, never fear.
Even found me this fine souvenir.
I know this!
This was mine!
This is surely some heavenly sign!
Then it's true.
Then I'm right.
Jean Valjean was my savior that night!
Jean Valjean, the old con.
You pay up or I say where he's gone.
Where is he?
Where is he?
The convent.
39."Beggars at the Feast" (Thénardier and Mme.) 
Watch the buggers dance Watch 'em till they drop 
Keep your wits about you And you stand on top!
Masters of the land Always get our share 
Clear away the barricades And we're still there!
We know where the wind is blowing Money is the stuff we smell.
And when we're rich as Croesus Jesus!
Won't we see you all in hell!
40."Valjean's Death" (Valjean, Fantine, Cosette, Marius, Bishop of Digne) 
Alone I wait in the shadows I count the hours untill I sleep I dreamed a dream Cosette stood by It made her weep to know I die.
Alone at the end of the day Upon this wedding night I pray 
Take these children, my Lord, to thy embrace And show them grace.
God on high Hear my prayer 
Take me now To thy care 
Where You are Let me be 
Take me now Take me there 
Bring me home 
M'sieur, I bless your name M'sieur, lay down your burden 
You raised my child in love And you will be with god.
Papa, Papa, I do not understand!
Are you alright?
Why did you go away?
Cosette, my child, am I forgiven now?
Thank God, thank God, I've lived to see this day.
It's you who must forgive a thoughtless fool It's you who must forgive a thankless man It's thanks to you that I am living And again I lay down my life at your feet.
Cosette, your father is a saint.
When they wounded me He took me from the barricade 
Carried like a babe And brought me home to you!
Now you are here Again beside me 
Now I can die in peace For now my life is blessed... 
You will live, Papa, you're going to live It's too soon, too soon to say goodbye!
Yes, Cosette, forbid me now to die I'll obey, I will try.
On this page I write my last confession.
Read it well When I at last am sleeping.
It's the story Of one who turned from hating.
A man who only learned to love with you and his keeping.
Come with me Where chains will never bind you 
All your grief At last, at last behind you.
Lord in Heaven, Look down on him in mercy.
Forgive me all my trespasses And take me to your glory.
Take my hand I'll lead you to salvation.
Take my love, For love is everlasting.
And remember The truth that once was spoken 
To love another person Is to see the face of God!
41."Do You Hear the People Sing?" (The Cast) Lost in the valley of the night?
It is the music of a people Who are climbing to the light.
For the wretched of the earth There is a flame that never dies.
Even the darkest night will end And the sun will rise.
They will live again in freedom In the garden of the Lord.
They will walk behind the plough-share, They will put away the sword.
The chain will be broken And all men will have their reward.
Will you join in our crusade?
Who will be strong and stand with me?
Somewhere beyond the barricade Is there a world you long to see?
Do you hear the people sing?
Say, do you hear the distant drums?
It is the future that they bring When tomorrow comes!
Will you join in our crusade?
Who will be strong and stand with me?
Somewhere beyond the barricade Is there a world you long to see?
Do you hear the people sing?
Say, do you hear the distant drums?
It is the future that they bring When tomorrow comes... 
Tomorrow comes!
(b.1968, AUS) as Jean Valjean, the ex-con then Mayor 
(b.1964, NZ) as Javert, the inspector 
(b.1982, US) as Fantine, the factory worker 
(b.1985, US) as Cosette, daughter of Fantine 
(b.1982, UK) as Marius, student 
(b.1983, US) as Enjolras, student 
(b.1990, UK) as Eponine as young Cosette as Gavroche, the kid 
(b.1966, UK) as Mme.
Thenardier 
(b.1971, UK) as Thenardier 

